[MUSIC]
In this exercise, we will go through
how to use Scenario Manager to try
out different values in your variables and
compare results.
There are many ways to accomplish this
task, such as making copies of the same
workbook and changing the input values in
different versions of the same workbook.
However, the simplest way to do this
is to use another tool in the What-If
Analysis called Scenario Manager.
Scenario Manager sets the parameters
we want to a certain value,
calculate the results, then instantly
recalls and replaces the input
value with different sets of numbers
based on the scenarios you have set up.
For our problem, the business development
team has asked us to explore the potential
profitability and growth of a new flight
route under different market conditions.
Here is a simplified version
of a income statement.
In orange are historical numbers for
the Ticket Revenue, Fee Revenue,
as well as Cost of Sales and
SG&A Expenses from the past three years.
A simple calculation will tell us that
the company has achieved steady growth and
operating income on this new road
expansion from 2014 to 2016.
In row 66 to row 68,
the starting sheet has already calculated
the Annual Growth Rate, the Growth Margin,
as well as the SG&A Expense as
a percentage of ticket revenue.
On the right side of the table,
we have projected revenue,
costs, and expenses,
if revenues, costs, and
expenses grow at the rate specified from
the assumption table in cells F66 to J68.
The CEO has requested that we determine
how the projected performance of
the company will look if there are changes
in how the company grows revenue and
manages costs.
In other words, we want to see how
the projected income statement changes
if the numbers in cell F66 to F68 change.
In addition to the scenario
shown in this example,
there are three additional
scenarios we need to consider.
All the different sales Growth Rate,
Growth Margins,
as well as different SG&A Expenses,
as a percentage of ticket revenue numbers.
To set up your Scenario Manager,
let's highlight the cells
that are going to change.
And then go to the Data tab >
What-If Analysis > Scenario Manager.
Let's first create a scenario to
capture what we have on the table
as a baseline for comparison.
In the Scenario Manager pop-up window,
click on ADD to create a new scenario.
A new window called
Add Scenario will appear.
First, let's give this scenario
a name called Baseline.
Now, because we have already selected the
cells containing the variables we want to
change, the Changing cell field
is already filled out for us.
However, if you had not selected the cells
before going to Scenario Manager,
or would like to change your selection,
you can also set the parameters here.
If you would like to attach a note on
any clarification or background you
want to provide for the scenario,
you can do so in the comment box here.
However, it is not required.
We believe it is best practice to leave
some comments just in case you or
someone else wants to review
your assumptions in the future.
However, in the interest of time,
we're going to leave this blank.
Lastly, there are also options to Prevent
changes and Hide the scenario if you like.
For our purpose, let's keep
the default setting and click OK.
Then, you will be taken to the final
step of setting up the scenario,
defining the value of each cell
to change in the scenario.
The numbers that are already in cell F66,
F67, and
F68 are the numbers we want to keep for
the scenario, so we can simply click OK.
That will take us back to our
Scenario Manager pop-up window, so
we can see the Baseline scenario that we
just set up in the list of scenarios.
Now, let's set up the other three
scenarios using the same method.
To set up our second scenario,
first, we'll click on Add and
type in our scenario name,
High Growth with Margin Impact.
The Changing cells in this scenario do not
change from the scenario we just defined.
So click OK in the Edit Scenario window.
In the Scenario Values window, we need
to update the values of the Changing
cells for this particular scenario.
Based on the scenario definition,
we want to change the first cell,
which is the Revenue Growth Rate, to 0.08.
The second cell,
which is the Growth Margin, to 0.45.
And keep the SG&A expenses as a percentage
of ticket revenue the same at 0.3.
After the variable's
values have been updated,
click on OK to complete
the second scenario.
Notice how the results of the income
statement changed based on our new
assumptions.
Operating Income in year 5
changed from around $1.7
million to around $2.2 million.
The third scenario will be very similar.
Let's click on Add and
type in your third scenario name,
Low Growth with Margin Impact.
The changing sales are the same
as the previous two scenarios, so
we will simply click OK here.
In the Scenario Values window,
we can update the values of
the changing sales for this scenario.
And in this alternative feature,
sales have dropped to 3%.
Growth Margin is lowered to 32%.
And SG&A Expenses as a percentage
of ticket revenue is not impacted.
So we will keep this at 30%
After the variable's values have
been updated for this scenario,
click on OK to finish
creating the third scenario.
Now, it's time to set up our
last scenario, click Add,
And type in the name of our final
scenario, Exploding Market Growth.
The last scenario is a little bit
different because we're considering
an additional variable which is the 2%
year over year growth as a result
of the overall industry market growth,
specified in cell K66.
Therefore, in a changing cell field,
let's add cell K66 and click OK.
Because revenue, margin, and expenses
stay the same as the original scenario,
we will keep those numbers from
the Baseline scenario at 8%
Revenue Growth Rate, 45% Growth Margin,
and 30% SG&A Expense as
a percentage of ticket revenue.
Our last field is for the year over
year growth rate, which we'll set to 2%.
After the variable's values have
been updated for this scenario,
click OK to complete our fourth and
final scenario.
Now that everything's set up,
there are two ways to view
the result of your scenarios.
The first way is to show
the result one scenario at a time.
To do that, simply click on the scenario
name in the Scenario Manager window,
then click Show.
As you can see, the projective portion of
the income statement, which is dependent
on a variables that we have specified
in our scenario, has just updated.
We can toggle between the different
scenarios by simply clicking
on another scenario name and
clicking Show.
However, this view does not
allow you to easily compare and
contrast the result of
all of your scenarios.
In order to see the results of all
the scenarios at once, we can create
a summary by clicking on Summary on the
right side of the Scenario Manager window.
For Report type,
choose Scenario Summary, and
let's include Gross Profit, Operating
Income, Compound Annual Growth Rate,
also known as CAGR, as the metrics to
view on the report for the period.
One we click OK, the summary
will be generated on a new tab.
As you can see, the Gross Profit,
Operating Income, and
CAGR results from each of the four
scenarios are listed on this table view.
On the left side,
there's an outline grouping tool.
If we click on the minus sign,
it will collapse the rows to only show
the bottom row in the same grouping.
When you click on the plus sign,
everything will reappear.
This allows you to view only the part of
the summary that you're
most interested in.
Now, it's turn to practice.
[MUSIC]